Add suggested changes from API guild discussion (POST usage) (#791)
zalando/restful-api-guidelines: chapters/http-requests.adoc

the URL"_.

Apart from resource creation, {POST} should be also used for scenarios that
cannot be covered by the other methods sufficiently. However, in such cases
make sure to document the fact that {POST} is used as a workaround (see e.g.
{GET-with-Body}).

See below for common {POST} use-cases.

[[post-create-single]]
==== Single resource creation

* Successful {POST} requests on a collection endpoint {SHOULD} return {201} and
  the new resource object (including the resource identifier) in the response
  payload.
** The client {SHOULD} be able to use this resource identifier to {GET} the
   resource if supported by the API (see <<143>>).
* If the response does not contain the created resource or a resource monitor the
  status code should still be {201}, and the URL to {GET} the resource {MUST} be
  provided in the {Location} response header. It is a good practice to always provide
  the {Location} header with the URL to the created resource (see <<180>>).
* The resource ID {MUST-NOT} be passed as request body data by the client,
  but created and maintained by the service.
* Posting the same resource twice is *not* required to be <<idempotent>>

> and may result in multiple resources, see <<post-idempotent>>.

Reviewer: This is already stated in the hint in the main section, so I think we should skip it here.

[[post-create-multiple]]
==== Multiple resource creation

If a {POST} request creates multiple resources, a successful response may be one
of the following:

* {201} with a collection of the newly created resources as served
  by the {GET} collection endpoint, but only if the creation is atomic.
* {207} bulk response, where each response item contains the ID and/or URL of
  the created resource, see <<152>>.

[[post-idempotent]]
==== Idempotent create/update

{POST} requests can be <<idempotent>>, in which case the status code depends
on whether the resource was created or updated, see <<229>>.

* If the resource was created, the response {SHOULD} have a {201} status code
  and follow <<post-create-single>> semantics.
* If the resource was updated, the response status code should be {200} or
  {204} (with or without returning the resource).

[[post-async]]
==== Asynchronous processing

If the request is accepted for asynchronous processing, the response status code

> should be {202}, see <<253>>.

Reviewer: This sound somehow over-separated. It is only one sentence and effectively can be applied to all of the before use cases. I vote for adding the `202` response code as options to the before three use case that already distinguish different `2xx` response codes in each case. `202` would just be another one in the list.

the URL"_.

* Successful {POST} requests on a collection endpoint will create one or more
  resource instances.
* For single resources, you {SHOULD} return {201} and the new resource object
  (including the resource identifier) in the response payload.
** The client {SHOULD} be able to use this resource identifier to {GET} the
   resource if supported by the API (see <<143>>).
** The URL to {GET} the resource {SHOULD} be provided in the {Location} header.

WARNING: The resource identifier {MUST-NOT} be passed as request body data by the client,
  but created and maintained by the service.

* For multiple resources you {SHOULD} return {201} in the response, as long as
  they are created atomically, meaning that either all the resources are created
  or none of them are.
** You <<152>> if the request can partially fail, that is some of the resources
  can fail to be created.
* If the response does not contain the created resource or a resource monitor,
  the status code {SHOULD} be {201} and the URL to {GET} the resource {MUST} be
  provided in the {Location} response header.
* If the {POST} is <<idempotent>>, the status code {SHOULD} be {201} if the

>   resource was created and {200} or {204} if the resource was updated.

Reviewer 2: I wonder whether these last two bullet points are more applicable for the single-resource case? They certainly don't fit for the "return 207" case. Maybe move them as sub-bullet-points to the single-resource case?

Author: Good point! I'll do that

{POST} requests are idiomatically used to *create* single resources on a
collection resource endpoint, but other semantics on single resources endpoint
are equally possible.

> The semantic for collection endpoints is best described as _"please add the

Author: Removed

enclosed representation to the collection resource identified by the URL"_. The
semantic for single resource endpoints is best described as _"please execute the
given well specified request on the resource identified by the URL"_.

Apart from resource creation, {POST} should be also used for scenarios that
cannot be covered by the other methods sufficiently. However, in such cases
make sure to document the fact that {POST} is used as a workaround (see e.g.
{GET-with-Body}).

See below for common {POST} use-cases.

[[post-create-single]]
==== Single resource creation

* Successful {POST} requests on a collection endpoint {SHOULD} return {201} and
  the new resource object (including the resource identifier) in the response
  payload.

> ** The client {SHOULD} be able to use this resource identifier to {GET} the
>    resource if supported by the API, see <<143>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** The client {SHOULD} be able to use this resource identifier to {GET} the
   resource if supported by the API (see <<143>>).
```

> * If the response does not contain the created resource (no payload, or a
>   payload with just a "Success" message), the status code should still be {201},
>   and the URL to {GET} the resource {MUST} be provided in the {Location}
>   response header. It is a good practice to always provide the {Location} header
>   with the URL to the created resource.

Reviewer: I would not like to advise to send just "success" message as response. This is not a resourcish approach as should be targeted by restful APIs.

* A `POST` request always creates or updates a resource or optionally a resource monitor.

The only degree of freedom in the API is to decide, whether the "resource" (or a "resource monitor") or nothing is returned, and whether a `Location` header or no `Location` header is returned. Suggesting you could create just a "success" message is leading in the wrong direction in my opinion.

```suggestion
* If the response does not contain the created resource or a resource monitor the
  status code should still be {201}, and the URL to {GET} the resource {MUST} be
  provided in the {Location} response header. It is a good practice to always provide
  the {Location} header with the URL to the created resource (see <<180>>).
```

Author: Yeah, makes sense.
